---
created: "2026-02-24 at 10:33"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> This lecture covered Tutorial 2
---
- Assume byte addressing. You will have a byte 
- Note the correct sizes for bytes where it is $2^n$
1. Address calculation, Fetch, Operation Decoding, Operation address calculation, Operand Fetch, Data Operation, Operand Store.
2. Disable all interupts while an interrupt is being processed, Define properties for interrupts and to allow an interupt of higher priorty to cause a lower priority handler to be interrupt.
3. Must support memory to processor and processor to memory, I/O to processor, Processor to I/O and I/O to or from memory. Note that I/O to or from memory is DMA and does not involve the processor
4. Physical Layer, this is the wires and circuitry. Data link layer. Transaction Layer.
---
3.3 
- 16 Mb
-  2 cycles because data bus is only 16 bit, but for the second case you will need a latch to manage this two step process
- PC must be atleast 24 bits, 
- 3.4a) For a 16 bit memory, for cases and A and B, there is no difference, the micorprocessor can access 64K bytes. The difference is that the 16 bit memory will be able to access at twice the rate
- 3.4b) For an 8 bit memory
- 3.4c)  Separate needed. One additional output pin will be required.
- 3.4d) 256 input and 256 output, just raise 2 to the port number to the find the number of IO devices that it supports.
- 3.5) Calculate the clock period and bus period, 2 bytes would have been transferred every $500 ns$ therefore the transfer rate is $4Mhz$ from 2/500ns. Doubling the frequency reduces the lifespan of the silicon, requires higher power draw and introduces instability. Doubling the external bus requires modifications to the bus control logic. 
- 3.7) The 16 bit microprocessor is twice as fast and in the mixed case then the factor is $1.5$
- 3.17) For these questions, assume that 100 instructions are being executed, and then calculate the clock cycles required for the different processors. The speedup is calculated by $$\frac{\text{faster}-\text{slower}}{\text{faster}}$$
- 