---
created: "2026-02-15 at 17:26"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> The literature review phase of any research project is vitally important. The ability to  scan through research papers and determine relevance is a critical skill and is often used outside of raw research. In this tutorial, you will need to find three papers that are relevant to the ERP420 research project: *Investigating statistical sensor fusion algorithms for Cartesian coordinate object tracking with polar measurements*. These papers should be related to different object tracking models and algorithms specifically focusing on the research project topic. You must then rank these papers from most relevant to least relevant by reading through the abstracts and scanning through the content of the papers.  

> Additional useful search terms:“converted measurement Kalman filter”, “extended Kalman filter”, “radar” and “sonar”.
---
-  I want to use this opportunity to hone my searching ability and to find a good set of pulbication resources. How should i do this? 
- The concepts in the topic are: 
	- Converted measurement Kalman Filter OR extended Kalman Filter
	- Cartesian coordinate
	- Radar OR Sonar OR Polar Measurements
- [Cartesian Space Localisation and Tracking Using Multi-Static Passive Radar](https://ieeexplore-ieee-org.uplib.idm.oclc.org/document/11204883)
- [Cartesian Tracking for Advanced Driver Assistance Imaging Radar Systems](https://ieeexplore-ieee-org.uplib.idm.oclc.org/document/9142023)
- [Vehicle Tracking Method in Polar Coordinate System Based on Radar and Monocular Camera](https://ieeexplore-ieee-org.uplib.idm.oclc.org/document/9164534

- It is a good idea to have a good mix between the seminal papers for the topic and the more recent developments in the topic. Lit Survey should have a good mix.
- 