---
created: "2026-02-19 at 08:35"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> This lecture focuses on critical thinking especically when evaluating information sources
---
- Understand what the problem is, what critical thinking is and what the result of critical thinking is.
- Critical thinking is the **objective analysis** and evaluation of an issue in order to form a judgement.
- To critically think about an information source.
	- Understand the main purpose, the key questions, the main assumptions, the main implications or limitations and the most important information of the source, the key concepts to understand the main conclusion
	- Answering these questions will help you derive your own research questions.
- The above actions are the basis of the scientific method.
- Make an observation, ask a question, propose a hypothesis that can be tested, make a prediction, test the prediction and finally create a conclusion. If unsuccessful, it is time to iterate.

- Phases 1 to 3 are what Research assignment 1 and 2 are concerned about. Its goal is to develop an understanding of the problem.
- In the problem statement, avoid general field problems
	- Does not have clear direction
	- Takes years to complete
	- Cinclusions tend to be general too

> Phase 1: Getting a researchable topic, How do Problem Demarcate: Narrow down a problem to something specific

- The introduction covers this, you start with the general field and narrow down to the research focus. Select a general field and then identify a specific problem or question.

> Phase 2: Formulate a hypothesis from the research question.

- Hypothesis takes the form of an $if-then$ statement.
- This week's tutorial is really important for Research Assignment 1
- A hypothesis has to have a measureable result.
- Make sure that the desired result of the hypothesis is not subjective, avoid words such as "better". 
- Having written a hypothesis, it should be clear what the experiments to conduct will be.
- It isn't necessary to specificy a number that relates to the performance at this stage but if there is motivation for it, then you may.
- Be careful not to add too much detail.

> Phase 3: Plan the research

- Should be structured and costed before research commences.
- Here we identify the variables. They need to be linked to the research questions and to the hypothesis. There are 3 kinds of variables we are looking for, independent, dependent and intermediate
- From the variables we are to develop a research model diagram
- Here we plan our research's method: Data collection, Research model implementaiton and analysis of results
- We are also to do resource planning, for time and money.
- Don't go into too much detail at this stage.
- Watch the video he placed in the slides.