---
created: "2026-03-09 at 09:33"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> ESP Lecture, going through Tutorial 1
---
- In problem 1, find that we minimum sampling frequency is 20khz. Make sure you are comfortable drawing spectrums. When you start drawing start with drawing the sampling train. The crossover point is the foldover freqency
- $A_{min}$ is positive, the signal should go lower than that to be below the quantisation noise level. We are relating to voltages so we use use $20log$, if it was power, it would be $10log$. Bipolar ADC has double the dynamic range $-V_{ref}\rightarrow V_{ref}$
- Aliasing level needs to be kept below the quantisation noise level.
- Equate the aliasing error level and the quantization noise level.
- There are 4 examples in the questions for chapter 2 and we need to understand them all.
- SDM is important, oversample so much that we only have a 1 bit adc. For every factor of 2 improvement in the sampling rate, the more that we will be able to reduce the noise f'loor. You reduce the hardware requirement by 1 bit each time you double the sampling rate. If we are told that it needs to be implemented in hardware then the oversampling must be a power of 2 so that we can use a shift register.
- Oversampling together with noise shaping. Pushes all the noise in our band of interest to the higher frequencies. We can use this in the future. This filter leads to a 6dB reduction per order.
- Be careful the power of 2 should be the oversampling ratio
- Decimation makes it slower and there is another...read the paragraph in the textbook that relates to this.
- Decimation is a good way to fix the speed problem in digital filters, it is effective.
- RATIO MUST BE A POWER OF 2
- Decimation is used to make your outbit stream a certain speed.
- **A common question would be what is the ENOB needed in a sytsem that is constrained to certain hardware** 
- For the example where there was a 21dB imporvement leads to a 3 bit improvement.
- Becareful of the unit in the z trasnform question, itshould just be radian and not angular freq.
- If you determine a number of bis that isnt integer, it depends on the questoin. You can only give as much as the hardware provides. If ans is 8.55 = B and you have an 8 bit adc then you fialize as 8 bit.
- Ratios are 10 log, magnitudes are 20 log.
- Remember to take advantage of conjugate pairs so that you don't waste your time doing calculations for any of the fourier transform equations.
- you can choose where to do the normalization, it makes more sense to do it upfront when you are doing the DFT.
- There are 2 ways that we can do the z transform. Divide by z, observe that all the functions have a z at the top.
- If you don't decide to divide by z then you need to compensate for that by multiplying throughout.
- Do not forget to add u, so that we make it causal.
- there is an important formula here $$Y(n)=\sum y(n)e^{-n}$$
- Evaluating stability, do the outputs grow in amplitude?
> Discussion now on Pre Prac 2
- Note that the filter response graph is normalized, if you want to oversample, then the 0.5 will be something else. The 0.5 is specifically for minimum sampling.