---
created: "2026-02-13 at 08:37"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> This lecture covers the introduction,...

---

- Refer to the diagram that shows the blocks in a DSP system.
- If analogue, it is standard to apply an anti-aliasing filter stage
- Accuracy only depends on the bits transmitted and received correctly (Guaranteed Accuracy).
- DSP systems have greater accuracy than analog systems.

> Core DSP Operations

- Convolution is the most important and it allows us to combine signals into a thrid signal. In DSP, we just work with samples as opposed to continuous functions that we worked on in ELI. *Need to review convolution*
	- If we know the impulse of a system, we will be able to fin the output of the system given the input.
- Running FFTs exist but not without computation sacrifices.
- Correlation so that we can measure periodicity.
	- Cross Correlation vs Autocorrelation

> Digital Filtering

- There is a block diagram in the textbook that shows how our samples are multiplied by the impulses
- We will look at IIR and FIR, these are some of the most important operations in DSP.

> Real Time Operations

- This is how DSP systems are characterized
- Things like built in multipliers
- Harvard architectures
- Pipelining?
- Consider things like how parallel your processes will be.

> Analog I/O Interface for Real Time DSP systems.

- Always begins with an analog filter (anti-aliasing filter). The only scenario where you may not need it is if you can guarantee that your signal is completely clean. We need this stage to make a digital Faraday cage so to speak.
- The ADC block follows. Step 1 is to sample at a rate that obeys Nyquist. The rest is known as the conversion process where a digital value is produced at the result.
- Reconstruction filter at the end will remove the staircase effect and make it all smooth again.
- Sampled analog signal needs to be quantized before converting to a binary representation.

> Sampling Theorem

- Applies to bandlimited conitnuous time signal. We want to sample at $F\geq 2B$
- Apart from comptation, there aren't drawbacks to oversampling.
- Sampling at exactly $2x$ may be risky, it is safer to oversample.

> Aliasing

- Sinusoids may change frequency during sampling.
- Oversampling can help mitigate this possibility
- The anti aliasing filter removes bands outside our target range.

> Sampling Process

- Mathematically, we are just multiplying with impulse train.
- Describing it to us in terms of convolution in the frequency domain and multiplying by an impulse train in the time domain.
- Distortion is the result of improper sampling.