---
created: "2026-02-25 at 09:46"
tags:
  - permanent
publish: "true"
---
> Now you want to ‘write a story/review’ covering the current standing of our collective knowledge from literature on the research project.

See Also:

- [[20260225175835 - Unbiased Converted Measurements for Tracking]]
- [[20260225192936 - Unbiased Kalman Filter using converted measurements]]
- [[20260225132432 - Comments on “Unbiased Converted Measurements for Tracking”]]
- [[20260225193133 - Decorrelated Unbiased Converted Measurement Kalman Filter]]
---
#### Introduction

> The purpose is to demarcate the problem, by providing context in both general and specific terms separating the real world problem from the engineering problem that is being solved. Remember the goal is to demarcate **our own** research work. *Paragraph 1 is to be used as a general picture from a real world non super jargony lens*. In the next *Paragraphs*, we briefly introduce the work already done focusing on the *what* of their implementations and what limitations they had.

#### Literature Survery Section

> The goal is to show that we are able to critically evaluate the literature. Understand the main problems addressed by the author(s), how their work is related to mine, what the main / novel contributions are by the author(s) to the field, what the main assumptions of the author(s) are and what limitations that imposes on the research, what their experimental approaches were and finally what are their main conclusions.

> [!tip]
> Order the content from most to least relevant to our topic

##### Modelling Approaches Subsection
> Here you write a summary of your interpretation of the modelling and implementations of the papers provided. Present your modelling summary as a single, coherent piece on the various approaches of modelling from literature related to the topic. Again, note that this is your interpretation, i.e. your work, and not a copy/paste/paraphrasing of what others have done

- I want to just plan my themes for the different possibilities, in the event that paper 4 is removed .
	- Theme 1: Mitigating Conversion Bias and the missing True State
	- Theme 2: Resolving Filter Level Estimation Bias via Time Step Decorrelation
- In the even that Paper 3 is removed,
	- Theme 1: Same as above
	- Theme 2: Instead of time step decorrelation have it via predicitve decorrelation 
- Missing paper 2
	- Theme 1: Same as above, focus on multiplicative debiasing and fixing geometric distortion
- It is clear that theme 1 will focus on establishing the solution to conversion biasing through statistical means and the second theme will involve how the estimation bias issue is resolved either through time step means or predictive state means.
##### Experimentation Approaches Section
> Here you write your interpretation of the experimental methods presented in the papers and present it as a single, coherent piece on the various approaches of experimentation and performance benchmarking in literature related to the topic. Notice, this is your interpretation, i.e. your work, and not a /paste/paraphrasing of what others have done

