---
created: "2026-02-23 at 13:31"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> D. Y. Kim and M. Jeon, “Data fusion of radar and image measurements for multi-object tracking via Kalman filtering,” Information Sciences, vol. 278, pp. 641–652, 2014
---
- They made 2 major assumptions. 

>N. Senel, K. Kefferp¨utz, K. Doycheva, and G. Elger, “Multi-Sensor Data Fusion for Real-Time Multi-Object Tracking,” Processes, vol. 11, no. 2, p. 501, 2023

- ...
---
Note that RA1 is $2$ pages in total and won't be as in depth as the tutorial. However, we should try to answer similar questions as they were in the tutorial.

- We should make a paragraph that compares the two paper's approach to modelling. 

[1] Paper 1 makes two simplifying assumptions. Firstly, they assume a linear Gaussian state space model and a fixed $y$ coordinate for the sensors to avoid ground clutter. The sensor calibration is also assumed to have affine homography. The approach they use as reference to theirs is also a geometry based approach that didn't explicitly consider noise models or false target detections. 

[2] Unrelated to Paper 1, this paper assumes the High-Level Fusion framework. This is a major preprocessing assumption. Both papers use the standard Kalman Filter as a baseline. The proposed approach is decoupled from particular sensors. 

In general paper 1, seems focused on reducing the dynamic considerations of the sensors while paper 2 is directly concerned with sensor systems expected to rarely ever be static.

---
- Provide a general perspective in the problem statement.
- Constrast them both in a fluid paragraph rather than only discussing 1 at a time.
- The main issue with the bad paragraphs is that they split the discussion on each paper.
- Focus on why they did what they did rather than how.