---
created: "2026-01-03 at 10:13"
tags:
  - permanent
publish: "true"
---
Signal energy serves as a measure of the strength of a signal. Graphically it is the total area underneath the signal when its amplitude is plotted against the independent variable which is most likely to be time.

A useful analog for thinking about signal energy is to consider circuit analysis where a load has a power rating which is with respect to time but a total energy consumption considers the rate of consumption and the time period of use. We can think of voltage as a signal, and so imagine this signal flows through a $1\ohm$ resistor - the total energy refers to the energy dissipated by the load over the entire period that the signal is non-zero.

The signal energy is quantified through the square of the signal for the entire period from negative to positive infinity. It is expressed by the following equation, $$E_g=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}|g(t)|^2dt$$
The above result is generalised to work for both real and complex valued signals. A signal can be called an energy signal if it converges to 0 over time and therefore results in a finite $E_g$ value.  

In practical systems all signals are energy signals due to our inability to generate signals that indefinitely non-zero. 

See Also:

- [[20260114190713 - Signal|Signal]]
- [[20260103110329 - Signal Power|Signal Power]]
- 

---

B. P. Lathi and Z. Ding, _Modern Digital and Analog Communication Systems_, 4th International ed. New York, NY, USA: Oxford University Press, 2010.