---
created: 2026-02-12 at 08:35
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---

---

- Sensors may give measurements frequently or infrequently and they may give many measurements at once
- *investigating statistical sensor fusion algorithms for Cartesian coordinate object tracking wth polar measurements*
- Polar measurements have a range and a bearing 
- What is a range vs bearing sensor. Some sensors can measure both.
- Stiatistical Sensor Fusion combines data from different sources so that the resulting info has less uncertainty than would be possible when the sources are used individually.
- In our project we are just working with X,Y so we are really just tracking it in 2 dimensions.
- Sensing happens in the Polar space and the object lives in the cartesian space
- There is a non linear relationship between moving between these spaces.
- We need to do research on the software and hardware research platforms.
- The hardware research platform is the STM32 Discovery Board
- There are interesting applications of statistical sensor fusion in other industries such as finance
- KALMAN FILTERS!
- Even though we were given a base project, we can choose which area of it to be interested in

>What is research and where does it come from

- Determine problem areas
- Optimise resource usgae
- Allow rtional fact based decision making 
- improve exisitng soltions
- Find alternative
- Devise new theories

> ProDEC Framework

- Research Problem (PRO)
- Design (D)
- Empirical Evidence (E)
- Conclusions (C)

- He keeps bringing up experiementation! 
- We  need to have curiosity about the unknown
- Search for data about the unknown
- Find answers
- Evaluate the answers
- Practical use of the answer

> Research is a method of action by means of which people solve problems in an endeavor to extend knowledge.
> A scientific investigation establishes new fascts 

- Gola of research is to search for truth and solve theoretical/empirical problems

> What is research not?

- Doing a literature survey
- Collecting data from different sources
- Let the data speak for itself rather than interpreting it so that it matches your desire

> Going into research

- Everything is systematic and you need to do certain steps chronologically or else you'll break the chain
- Basic research precedes Applied Research
	- Basic research is theoretical by nature and develop theories by testing a hypothesis
	- Applied researchers solve a specific observed problem 
	- Engineering research focuses on ethnics? 

> Starting point for research

- Phase 1: Select a researchable topic
- Phase 2: Formulate research question/hypothesis
- Phase 3: Plan the research
- Phase 4: Implement the methods decided upon
- Phase 5: Collect data
- Phase 6: Analyse and interpret the data
- Phase 7: Report the research
- A research project is not complete until it is shared publically for experts to review.

> Sources for research topics
- Observation (problems, inefficiencies, human nature, disasters etc.)
- Literature review
- Previous research
- Consultants
- Reports

> Sources for relevant literature

- Conference Papers
- Journal Publications
	- Research Papers
	- Review Papers - If you can find a review paper for a topic that you find interesting then you have some weight behind expressing your interest.
	- Tutorial Papers

> Scientific Community

- New ideas are evaluated at meetings/symposiums
- Conferences have become an enterprise that don't provide enough emphasis on the quality of the paper
- Incremental contributaiton at a masters level, Significant contribution at a PhD and post doc level
- Conference papers vs Journals vs Textbooks
- Conferences focus on indiviual scientists
- Journals have an editorial board and pretty much give a stamp of approval to ongoing research
- Textbooks organize the relevant body of science of a long period of time
- There is a set of super top tier conferences for AI, ML, Vision etc.

> How do we quantify journal quality?

- There is no reliable way to track viewership so we use citations, as they are easy to track
- Impact Factor
	- 3 year period
	- Average number of times cited up to 2 years after publication
	- A = Number of times published in the 2 years prior to publication were cited in indexed journals during the year of journal publication.
	- B = Number of articles, reviews, proceedings or notes published in the 2 years prior to journal publication.
	- $\text{Impact Factor} = \frac{A}{B}$
	- **This penalizes journals for just accepting all papers and incentivizes quality papers**
	- It is hard to quantify what a good impact factor is, it is very much domain specific.
	- Factors between 2 - 20 are the range for engineering.
- Predatory/Bogus journals/conferences are springing up to get money. Use the site scimago to vet the event/journal. 
- Use IEEE/XPlore and the IEEE Search Tipics page
- AI powered literature search: Scholar Labs, Inciteful.xyz
	- 

