---
created: "2026-02-23 at 08:42"
tags:
  - fleeting
publish: "false"
---
> Cache Memory Lecture. This is chapter 5 of the textbook.
---
- There is $L1$ to $L3$ cache where at each level you have progressively slower access times.
- Blocks are the minimum unit of transfer between a the cache and main memory.
- Frames or Block frames are used to reference caches to distinguish between data transferred and a chunk of physical memory.
- A line is a portion of cache memory that can store 1 block. This is because it spreads the block into a line.
- The tag is a portion of the cache line that is used for addressing purposes.
- A typical cache organisation allows the processor to access the read data on the same data line that it is being stored into cache simultaneously. *But what about speed? is the general system bus as past as the point to point connection between the CPU and the cache?*
- Virtual Memory performs a mapping from where the physical data is to somewhere logically addresses. This abstracts the amount of main memory that is available.
- Using both physical and logical addresses, it is a design choice as to which of these the cache would like to use. The hardware management unit ($MMU$) is responsible for translating the addresses.
- We want the *latency of cache but the cost of memory*
- We optimize for size of cache to keep the cost per bit low enough to be close to main memory. Larger caches are physically slower than smaller caches. However, the performance of cache is very sensitive to the workload and so it is impossible to arrive at an optimum cache size.
- There are several cache access methods.
- Direct Mapping is between cache memory lines and main memory blocks. With modular arithmetic, there is a $1-1$ mapping. There is no choice is where the blocks go in Direct Mapping, again it is all based on modular arithmetic. Memory needs to know which block and which word we are trying to access, so we need bits to be able to identify either. *Use figure $5.7$ to understand the summary equations*  
- Associative mapping allows placing in cache irrespective of order and so an algorithm is needed. 
- Also called Content-Addressable Memory ($CAM$), find the data by content in a single clock cycle. CAM is a parallel search approach, which is why it can return the result in a single clock cycle. CAM works with a standard SRAM. The control of the $ML$ line is what we use to determine if there is or isnt a match.
- Fully associative cache memory, when a match is not found, we can use algorithms that decide where to put the memory into the cache once it is found in main memory unlike direct memory. The tag fully describes where the block came from. 